# COVID-19-Inequity-Research-Report

This research report examines the socioeconomic disparities present amogst COVID-19 resources, transmission rates, and susceptibility levels. The report was written for a final project in my Engineering Probaility and Statistics course. We were given a two month timeframe to conduct research and to find insights into our dataset/topic of choice. Our instructions were to write a final report (maximum of 10 pages) explaining our research. 

Abstract: 

Over the past year, the 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19) has spread throughout the United States, taking the lives of thousands of Americans. The transmission rates and susceptibility levels of the virus are suggested to be higher in communities of high socioeconomic vulnerability. This claim is strongly backed by the similarities between Influenza and COVID-19, as well as the socioeconomic disparities proven to already exist in the Influenza virus. The behavior of influenza plays a crucial role to help us understand COVID-19 due to the lack of testing resources during the early months of the pandemic; we can use influenza to closely model the COVID-19 trends of transmission and susceptibility. First, we will examine the driving factors that create these discrepancies in influenza and demonstrate how these circumstances pertain to the disparities present in COVID-19. Second, we will create two samples of United States counties—one consisting of the most socioeconomically vulnerable counties and the other containing least socioeconomically vulnerable counties—and compare the novel coronavirus transmission rates and vulnerability levels. To do so, we will find the proportion of daily COVID-19 cases for each county in our two samples on a randomly selected day during the pandemic. We will construct a sampling distribution of the sample means for our two data sets of counties and compare the two distributions using a Hypothesis Test. Third, we will illuminate statistical flaws in our findings—stressing the lack of COVID-19 resources to communities of high socioeconomic vulnerability during the early months of the pandemic. The lack of resources to socioeconomically vulnerable communities is important to note as the COVID-19 vaccinations begin to rollout across the United States. Lastly, we modify our Hypothesis Test to control for the lack of COVID-19 testing resources during the early months of the pandemic. 
